README.md, before:



# ETL Extract Lab

**Name:** Esther Wambui
**Student ID:** 669399

## Description

This project is for **Lab 3: Practicing Extraction in ETL**.
Demonstrating the process of performing **Full Extraction** and **Incremental Extraction** on a realistic dataset.

* **Full Extraction** loads the entire dataset and displays key statistics.
* **Incremental Extraction** extracts only new or updated rows since the last recorded extraction timestamp.

The project also updates the timestamp after every incremental extraction.

---

## Tools Used

* **Python 3.12**
* **pandas** library
* **Jupyter Notebook** (.ipynb)

---

## How to Reproduce

1. Clone this repository or download the ZIP.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Esther-Wambui/ETL_Extract_EstherWambui_669399-.git
```

2. Open the project folder.

3. Run `etl_extract.ipynb` in **Jupyter Notebook**.

4. Files used:

   * sales_data_sample.csv → dataset used for the extraction.
   * last_extraction.txt → stores the timestamp of last extraction.

5. The notebook will:

   * Perform **Full Extraction** of the dataset.
   * Perform **Incremental Extraction** based on last_extraction.txt.
   * Save the new timestamp.

---

## Dataset Source

Dataset used: **Sales Data Sample**
(Sourced from Kaggle )

---

## Screenshots 

* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b37702b-c7f7-4960-ad2f-b52de4f7bb08)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cfcd18c5-59b0-4425-bfc3-ec5e3da25c74)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dd209b16-5a3f-4349-896a-f09389cf4839)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/907e37b5-e6ed-4dc0-a601-8acd054643f1) 
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4f8916ca-33fa-4a0a-b7c2-2afd57273bc7)
*  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e8f199f-f8c0-4074-8c9b-95e510f2b9e8)
*  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/460d3177-f4b0-4399-aacd-b2b9aa5462b2)

*  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/049ba52f-d1c6-465a-a6af-a0186f02a5cf)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac817931-582a-47f9-94c9-90e1b7092d14)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a85ce39b-3bf9-463e-8233-fcf7aa6c3ba2)

 




 *

---

Commit message:

Added transformation logic and updated README

README.md, after:



# ETL Extract Lab

**Name:** Esther Wambui
**Student ID:** 669399

## Description

This project is for **Lab 3 & 4: Practicing Extraction and Transformation in ETL**.  
It demonstrated the process of performing:

- **Full Extraction** – loading the entire dataset and displaying key statistics.
- **Incremental Extraction** – extracting only new or updated rows since the last recorded extraction timestamp.
- **Data Transformation** – cleaning, enriching, and structuring the extracted data for analysis.

The project also updated the timestamp after every incremental extraction.


---

## Tools Used

* **Python 3.12**
* **pandas** library
* **Jupyter Notebook** (.ipynb)

---

## How to Reproduce

1. Clone this repository or download the ZIP.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Esther-Wambui/ETL_Extract_EstherWambui_669399-.git
```

2. Open the project folder.

3. Run `etl_extract.ipynb` in **Jupyter Notebook**.

4. Files used:

   * sales_data_sample.csv → dataset used for the extraction.
   * last_extraction.txt → stores the timestamp of last extraction.

5. The notebook will:

   * Perform **Full Extraction** of the dataset.
   * Perform **Incremental Extraction** based on last_extraction.txt.
   * Save the new timestamp.

---

## Dataset Source

Dataset used: **Sales Data Sample**
(Sourced from Kaggle )

---

## Screenshots 

* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b37702b-c7f7-4960-ad2f-b52de4f7bb08)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cfcd18c5-59b0-4425-bfc3-ec5e3da25c74)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dd209b16-5a3f-4349-896a-f09389cf4839)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/907e37b5-e6ed-4dc0-a601-8acd054643f1) 
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4f8916ca-33fa-4a0a-b7c2-2afd57273bc7)
*  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e8f199f-f8c0-4074-8c9b-95e510f2b9e8)
*  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/460d3177-f4b0-4399-aacd-b2b9aa5462b2)

*  ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/049ba52f-d1c6-465a-a6af-a0186f02a5cf)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ac817931-582a-47f9-94c9-90e1b7092d14)
* ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a85ce39b-3bf9-463e-8233-fcf7aa6c3ba2)

 




 *

---
